README.md, before:

# ShadyBridge — HTTPS MITM Test Harness (Dante + nginx)

ShadyBridge is a lightweight MITM test harness that lets you run any HTTPS client against a different HTTPS server 
without changing the client’s code or host configuration (beyond trusting a test CA). It combines a SOCKS5 forwarder 
(Dante), an nginx reverse‑proxy that terminates TLS with a user‑provided or locally generated test CA, and simple 
routing glue so the client thinks it’s talking to the original host while traffic is actually proxied to an arbitrary 
test host.

Use it when you need to validate client behavior (requests, headers, flows, redirects, error handling, etc.) against 
alternate backend implementations, instrumentation proxies, or test environments — without rebuilding or reconfiguring 
the client.

## Key properties
- Transparent to the HTTPS client (no client changes) as long as:
  - The client does not perform certificate pinning, and
  - The host running the client will accept and trust a test CA you install.
- Works by presenting the client with certificates signed by a local test CA; nginx then forwards/rewrites the requests 
  to the target server.
- Uses a SOCKS5 gateway so you can redirect traffic from legacy or unconfigurable clients by changing only their SOCKS proxy settings (or system proxy).
- Includes a self‑signed cert builder (scripts in this repo) to create and validate a local test CA and per‑host server certs.

## Components
- Dante (SOCKS5) — receives client traffic and forwards it into the test pipeline.
- nginx (reverse‑proxy + TLS) — terminates client TLS using certs signed by the ShadyBridge CA, and proxies the request to the chosen upstream host (optionally re‑encrypting to upstream TLS).
- ShadyBridge glue — docker‑compose topology, config templates, and helper scripts to generate per‑host certs and map incoming hostnames to arbitrary upstreams.

## Typical flow
1. ShadyBridge generates (or imports) a test CA and per‑host certs signed by that CA.
2. Client → SOCKS5 (Dante) → ShadyBridge nginx (presents test cert for requested host).
3. nginx forwards the request to the configured upstream host (plain HTTP or HTTPS).
4. Responses flow back through nginx → Dante → client; client believes it talked to the original host.

## When to use
- Functional or integration testing of HTTPS clients against alternate backends.
- Instrumentation or traffic capture where you cannot modify the client.
- Simulating different server responses or injecting faults for resilience testing.

## Limitations & warnings
- Certificate pinning: If the client pins certificates (public key or fingerprint), ShadyBridge will fail — you cannot bypass pinning.
- Trust requirement: You must install/trust ShadyBridge’s CA on the client host (or in the client’s trust store) for TLS to succeed.
- Security / legal caution: ShadyBridge performs MITM on TLS traffic. Do not use it on production networks or against third‑party systems without explicit consent. Treat CA private keys and generated certs as sensitive secrets.
- Not for production: Intended strictly for testing, QA, and local dev workflows.

## Repository layout
- compose.yml — Orchestrates the Dante SOCKS5 server and nginx reverse‑proxy on a small bridge network.
- Dockerfile-dante — Dante container image with a templated config rendered at runtime.
- Dockerfile-nginx — nginx image that renders nginx.conf at container start and serves TLS from ./certs.
- nginx.tmpl.conf — nginx config template (uses REDIR_HOSTNAME and REDIR_IP placeholders).
- danted.conf.tmpl — Dante config template (binds to 0.0.0.0:1080 and permits a configurable CIDR).
- entrypoint-*.sh — Entry points that render configs from templates and start services.
- certs/ — Holds CA and server cert artifacts. The builder populates: ca.key.pem, ca.crt.pem, ca.crt, server.key.pem, server.crt.pem, etc.
- x-generate-certs.sh — Self‑signed cert builder/validator for a given REDIR_HOSTNAME (uses .env).
- x-build.sh — Validates env, runs x-generate-certs.sh, then docker compose build.
- x-show-certs.sh — Convenience script to output cert details (if present).
- [README - IOS CA Cert Install.md](./README%20-%20IOS%20CA%20Cert%20Install.md) — Step‑by‑step iOS CA installation guide.
- [README - IOS SOCKS Proxy Setup.md](./README%20-%20IOS%20SOCKS%20Proxy%20Setup.md) — iOS device SOCKS proxy setup (Shadowrocket) guide.

## Prerequisites
- Docker and Docker Compose Plugin (docker compose v2+).
- OpenSSL on the host (for the certificate builder scripts).
- A client that can send traffic through a SOCKS5 proxy (system proxy, app‑specific proxy, or iOS Shadowrocket).

## Quick start
1) Clone and create a .env
- Create a .env in the repo root with the hostname you want clients to request and the upstream IP to which nginx should proxy. Example:

```ini
REDIR_HOSTNAME=villaincon-gamehub.universalorlando.com
REDIR_IP=203.0.113.45
```

  Notes:
  - REDIR_HOSTNAME is the host your client will request (the SNI/Host header on which nginx presents the cert).
  - REDIR_IP is the upstream address nginx proxy_passes to. Typically an IP, but a resolvable name also works if your Docker DNS can resolve it.
  - A common historical typo REDITR_IP is also supported and will be treated as REDIR_IP if present.

2) Generate or validate certificates
- Run:
  ```bash
  ./x-generate-certs.sh
  ```
- Behavior:
  - If ./certs/ca.key.pem and ./certs/ca.crt.pem exist, they are reused (your CA is preserved).
  - If missing, a local CA is created and exported as ./certs/ca.crt (handy for trust stores).
  - A per‑host server cert is created for REDIR_HOSTNAME (with SAN = DNS:REDIR_HOSTNAME). If an existing server cert is found, it’s validated (expiry buffer and SAN/CN match) and only regenerated if invalid.

3) Build and start services
- Build:
  ```bash
  ./x-docker-build.sh
  ```
- Or manually:
  ```bash
  docker compose build
  ```
- Start:
  ```bash
  docker compose up -d
  ```

4) Point your client at the SOCKS5 proxy
- SOCKS5 endpoint: host running Docker, port 1080 (mapped from the Dante container).
- Ensure the client resolves REDIR_HOSTNAME to the nginx container’s static IP (172.30.0.3) — this repo’s compose uses an extra_hosts entry in the Dante container so that clients routed via SOCKS hit nginx for REDIR_HOSTNAME automatically.
- For iOS, use the Shadowrocket setup guide below.

5) Install and trust the test CA on the client
- For iOS: see [README - IOS CA Cert Install.md](./README%20-%20IOS%20CA%20Cert%20Install.md).
- For desktop/macOS browsers and tools, import ./certs/ca.crt (PEM) into the system or app trust store.

## How it works in this repo
- Networking: docker compose creates a small bridge network (172.30.0.0/29). nginx is assigned 172.30.0.3, Dante 172.30.0.2.
- Routing: Dante has extra_hosts mapping so that REDIR_HOSTNAME resolves to 172.30.0.3 inside the Dante container, ensuring TLS termination happens at nginx.
- TLS: nginx serves server.crt.pem/server.key.pem generated for REDIR_HOSTNAME by the builder scripts and will be trusted by clients that install ca.crt.
- Upstream: nginx proxy_passes to https://$REDIR_IP with SNI forwarding enabled (proxy_ssl_server_name on). Backend cert verification is disabled by default (proxy_ssl_verify off). Enable it if you want upstream verification.

## Environment variables
- REDIR_HOSTNAME — The hostname clients request and for which nginx presents a cert.
- REDIR_IP — The upstream server IP or name nginx proxies to (TLS by default in the template). The common fallback REDITR_IP is also accepted.
- DANTED_EXTERNAL — Optional. Interface name for Dante to use as its external interface. Defaults to the container’s default route interface (usually eth0).
- DANTED_USER — Optional. Runtime user for Dante (defaults to nobody).
- ALLOW_FROM — Optional. CIDR allowed to connect to Dante (defaults to 0.0.0.0/0). Tighten this for LAN‑only access.

## Client setup guides (iOS)
- CA installation: [README - IOS CA Cert Install.md](./README%20-%20IOS%20CA%20Cert%20Install.md)
- SOCKS proxy on iOS (Shadowrocket): [README - IOS SOCKS Proxy Setup.md](./README%20-%20IOS%20SOCKS%20Proxy%20Setup.md)

## Common scenarios
- A/B backend testing: Point REDIR_HOSTNAME to a staging or alternate implementation’s IP via REDIR_IP.
- Traffic capture/instrumentation: Place an instrumentation proxy upstream; keep ShadyBridge as the TLS edge for clients while sending to that proxy.
- Failure injection: Swap REDIR_IP to a host that returns crafted errors/timeouts, or add nginx rules to inject faults.

## Troubleshooting
- Client shows TLS errors:
  - Ensure the client trusts ./certs/ca.crt. On iOS, follow the CA install guide and enable full trust for root certificates.
  - Verify server.crt.pem SAN matches REDIR_HOSTNAME. Re‑run ./x-generate-certs.sh after updating .env.
- Cannot connect through SOCKS:
  - Confirm Dante is listening on 0.0.0.0:1080 (docker ps; docker logs socks-dante).
  - Check ALLOW_FROM is set correctly; by default it is 0.0.0.0/0. Tighten only if you understand your network.
- Upstream handshake fails or loops:
  - Check that REDIR_IP points to the intended upstream server and is reachable from the nginx container.
  - If your upstream uses HTTPS with required verification, consider setting proxy_ssl_verify on and mounting appropriate CA bundles into the nginx container.
- Name mismatch upstream:
  - nginx forwards SNI to the upstream (proxy_ssl_server_name on), which helps if upstream expects a particular hostname. If your upstream needs a specific Host header, you can adjust proxy_set_header Host in nginx.tmpl.conf.

## Security notes
- Treat files under ./certs as secrets, especially ca.key.pem and server.key.pem.
- Never use this setup on untrusted networks without strong controls. Remove CA trust from devices after testing.
- Do not attempt to circumvent certificate pinning.

## Cleanup
- Stop services: docker compose down
- Remove generated certs (if you need a fresh CA/certs): rm -rf certs/*
- Remove images: docker image rm <image_ids> (optional)

## References
- iOS CA installation: [README - IOS CA Cert Install.md](./README%20-%20IOS%20CA%20Cert%20Install.md)
- iOS SOCKS proxy (Shadowrocket) setup: [README - IOS SOCKS Proxy Setup.md](./README%20-%20IOS%20SOCKS%20Proxy%20Setup.md)

Commit message:

Added a template env file. Updted examples.

README.md, after:

# ShadyBridge — HTTPS MITM Test Harness (Dante + nginx)

ShadyBridge is a lightweight MITM test harness that lets you run any HTTPS client against a different HTTPS server 
without changing the client’s code or host configuration (beyond trusting a test CA). It combines a SOCKS5 forwarder 
(Dante), an nginx reverse‑proxy that terminates TLS with a user‑provided or locally generated test CA, and simple 
routing glue so the client thinks it’s talking to the original host while traffic is actually proxied to an arbitrary 
test host.

Use it when you need to validate client behavior (requests, headers, flows, redirects, error handling, etc.) against 
alternate backend implementations, instrumentation proxies, or test environments — without rebuilding or reconfiguring 
the client.

## Key properties
- Transparent to the HTTPS client (no client changes) as long as:
  - The client does not perform certificate pinning, and
  - The host running the client will accept and trust a test CA you install.
- Works by presenting the client with certificates signed by a local test CA; nginx then forwards/rewrites the requests 
  to the target server.
- Uses a SOCKS5 gateway so you can redirect traffic from legacy or unconfigurable clients by changing only their SOCKS proxy settings (or system proxy).
- Includes a self‑signed cert builder (scripts in this repo) to create and validate a local test CA and per‑host server certs.

## Components
- Dante (SOCKS5) — receives client traffic and forwards it into the test pipeline.
- nginx (reverse‑proxy + TLS) — terminates client TLS using certs signed by the ShadyBridge CA, and proxies the request to the chosen upstream host (optionally re‑encrypting to upstream TLS).
- ShadyBridge glue — docker‑compose topology, config templates, and helper scripts to generate per‑host certs and map incoming hostnames to arbitrary upstreams.

## Typical flow
1. ShadyBridge generates (or imports) a test CA and per‑host certs signed by that CA.
2. Client → SOCKS5 (Dante) → ShadyBridge nginx (presents test cert for requested host).
3. nginx forwards the request to the configured upstream host (plain HTTP or HTTPS).
4. Responses flow back through nginx → Dante → client; client believes it talked to the original host.

## When to use
- Functional or integration testing of HTTPS clients against alternate backends.
- Instrumentation or traffic capture where you cannot modify the client.
- Simulating different server responses or injecting faults for resilience testing.

## Limitations & warnings
- Certificate pinning: If the client pins certificates (public key or fingerprint), ShadyBridge will fail — you cannot bypass pinning.
- Trust requirement: You must install/trust ShadyBridge’s CA on the client host (or in the client’s trust store) for TLS to succeed.
- Security / legal caution: ShadyBridge performs MITM on TLS traffic. Do not use it on production networks or against third‑party systems without explicit consent. Treat CA private keys and generated certs as sensitive secrets.
- Not for production: Intended strictly for testing, QA, and local dev workflows.

## Repository layout
- compose.yml — Orchestrates the Dante SOCKS5 server and nginx reverse‑proxy on a small bridge network.
- Dockerfile-dante — Dante container image with a templated config rendered at runtime.
- Dockerfile-nginx — nginx image that renders nginx.conf at container start and serves TLS from ./certs.
- nginx.tmpl.conf — nginx config template (uses REDIR_HOSTNAME and REDIR_IP placeholders).
- danted.conf.tmpl — Dante config template (binds to 0.0.0.0:1080 and permits a configurable CIDR).
- entrypoint-*.sh — Entry points that render configs from templates and start services.
- certs/ — Holds CA and server cert artifacts. The builder populates: ca.key.pem, ca.crt.pem, ca.crt, server.key.pem, server.crt.pem, etc.
- x-generate-certs.sh — Self‑signed cert builder/validator for a given REDIR_HOSTNAME (uses .env).
- x-build.sh — Validates env, runs x-generate-certs.sh, then docker compose build.
- x-show-certs.sh — Convenience script to output cert details (if present).
- [README - IOS CA Cert Install.md](./README%20-%20IOS%20CA%20Cert%20Install.md) — Step‑by‑step iOS CA installation guide.
- [README - IOS SOCKS Proxy Setup.md](./README%20-%20IOS%20SOCKS%20Proxy%20Setup.md) — iOS device SOCKS proxy setup (Shadowrocket) guide.

## Prerequisites
- Docker and Docker Compose Plugin (docker compose v2+).
- OpenSSL on the host (for the certificate builder scripts).
- A client that can send traffic through a SOCKS5 proxy (system proxy, app‑specific proxy, or iOS Shadowrocket).

## Quick start
1) Clone and create a .env
- Use template.env as the starting point for your .env. You can copy it and edit values:
  ```bash
  cp template.env .env
  ```
- Then set the hostname you want clients to request and the upstream IP to which nginx should proxy. Example:

```ini
REDIR_HOSTNAME=server.somedomain.com
REDIR_IP=203.0.113.45
```

  Notes:
  - REDIR_HOSTNAME is the host your client will request (the SNI/Host header on which nginx presents the cert).
  - REDIR_IP is the upstream address nginx proxy_passes to. Typically an IP, but a resolvable name also works if your Docker DNS can resolve it.
  - A common historical typo REDITR_IP is also supported and will be treated as REDIR_IP if present.

2) Generate or validate certificates
- Run:
  ```bash
  ./x-generate-certs.sh
  ```
- Behavior:
  - If ./certs/ca.key.pem and ./certs/ca.crt.pem exist, they are reused (your CA is preserved).
  - If missing, a local CA is created and exported as ./certs/ca.crt (handy for trust stores).
  - A per‑host server cert is created for REDIR_HOSTNAME (with SAN = DNS:REDIR_HOSTNAME). If an existing server cert is found, it’s validated (expiry buffer and SAN/CN match) and only regenerated if invalid.

3) Build and start services
- Build:
  ```bash
  ./x-docker-build.sh
  ```
- Or manually:
  ```bash
  docker compose build
  ```
- Start:
  ```bash
  docker compose up -d
  ```

4) Point your client at the SOCKS5 proxy
- SOCKS5 endpoint: host running Docker, port 1080 (mapped from the Dante container).
- Ensure the client resolves REDIR_HOSTNAME to the nginx container’s static IP (172.30.0.3) — this repo’s compose uses an extra_hosts entry in the Dante container so that clients routed via SOCKS hit nginx for REDIR_HOSTNAME automatically.
- For iOS, use the Shadowrocket setup guide below.

5) Install and trust the test CA on the client
- For iOS: see [README - IOS CA Cert Install.md](./README%20-%20IOS%20CA%20Cert%20Install.md).
- For desktop/macOS browsers and tools, import ./certs/ca.crt (PEM) into the system or app trust store.

## How it works in this repo
- Networking: docker compose creates a small bridge network (172.30.0.0/29). nginx is assigned 172.30.0.3, Dante 172.30.0.2.
- Routing: Dante has extra_hosts mapping so that REDIR_HOSTNAME resolves to 172.30.0.3 inside the Dante container, ensuring TLS termination happens at nginx.
- TLS: nginx serves server.crt.pem/server.key.pem generated for REDIR_HOSTNAME by the builder scripts and will be trusted by clients that install ca.crt.
- Upstream: nginx proxy_passes to https://$REDIR_IP with SNI forwarding enabled (proxy_ssl_server_name on). Backend cert verification is disabled by default (proxy_ssl_verify off). Enable it if you want upstream verification.

## Environment variables
- REDIR_HOSTNAME — The hostname clients request and for which nginx presents a cert.
- REDIR_IP — The upstream server IP or name nginx proxies to (TLS by default in the template). The common fallback REDITR_IP is also accepted.
- DANTED_EXTERNAL — Optional. Interface name for Dante to use as its external interface. Defaults to the container’s default route interface (usually eth0).
- DANTED_USER — Optional. Runtime user for Dante (defaults to nobody).
- ALLOW_FROM — Optional. CIDR allowed to connect to Dante (defaults to 0.0.0.0/0). Tighten this for LAN‑only access.

## Client setup guides (iOS)
- CA installation: [README - IOS CA Cert Install.md](./README%20-%20IOS%20CA%20Cert%20Install.md)
- SOCKS proxy on iOS (Shadowrocket): [README - IOS SOCKS Proxy Setup.md](./README%20-%20IOS%20SOCKS%20Proxy%20Setup.md)

## Common scenarios
- A/B backend testing: Point REDIR_HOSTNAME to a staging or alternate implementation’s IP via REDIR_IP.
- Traffic capture/instrumentation: Place an instrumentation proxy upstream; keep ShadyBridge as the TLS edge for clients while sending to that proxy.
- Failure injection: Swap REDIR_IP to a host that returns crafted errors/timeouts, or add nginx rules to inject faults.

## Troubleshooting
- Client shows TLS errors:
  - Ensure the client trusts ./certs/ca.crt. On iOS, follow the CA install guide and enable full trust for root certificates.
  - Verify server.crt.pem SAN matches REDIR_HOSTNAME. Re‑run ./x-generate-certs.sh after updating .env.
- Cannot connect through SOCKS:
  - Confirm Dante is listening on 0.0.0.0:1080 (docker ps; docker logs socks-dante).
  - Check ALLOW_FROM is set correctly; by default it is 0.0.0.0/0. Tighten only if you understand your network.
- Upstream handshake fails or loops:
  - Check that REDIR_IP points to the intended upstream server and is reachable from the nginx container.
  - If your upstream uses HTTPS with required verification, consider setting proxy_ssl_verify on and mounting appropriate CA bundles into the nginx container.
- Name mismatch upstream:
  - nginx forwards SNI to the upstream (proxy_ssl_server_name on), which helps if upstream expects a particular hostname. If your upstream needs a specific Host header, you can adjust proxy_set_header Host in nginx.tmpl.conf.

## Security notes
- Treat files under ./certs as secrets, especially ca.key.pem and server.key.pem.
- Never use this setup on untrusted networks without strong controls. Remove CA trust from devices after testing.
- Do not attempt to circumvent certificate pinning.

## Cleanup
- Stop services: docker compose down
- Remove generated certs (if you need a fresh CA/certs): rm -rf certs/*
- Remove images: docker image rm <image_ids> (optional)

## References
- iOS CA installation: [README - IOS CA Cert Install.md](./README%20-%20IOS%20CA%20Cert%20Install.md)
- iOS SOCKS proxy (Shadowrocket) setup: [README - IOS SOCKS Proxy Setup.md](./README%20-%20IOS%20SOCKS%20Proxy%20Setup.md)
